Actually right. A hundred percent. I've read all of, uh, tatuin's uh,
works almost all of them. He he's a brilliant trainer. I agree with that.
A hundred percent outside of competition. Let's explain it to people. Yeah.
Okay. So yeah, let me, uh, okay, so let's say for instance, let's say, you know,
I'm a big believer in never being sore.
You should train and the next day you should wake up feeling good. Okay.
You know, why how's that possible? Well, because as look, if, if, okay,
that's a great, that's a great example. Let's say, um,
let's say your energy levels. We're talking about fit people by the way. Right?
Every, every, every human being, every single, so guys' never worked out before,
even your first day, first day never changed.
How is it possible to work out and not be sore? No problem. Beautiful.
Here we go.
<laugh> so let's say there's something called rate of perceived,
ER, okay.
So let's say I make you do pull ups and let's say the maximum amount of pullups
you can do the maximum amount of pull up is 10.
Let's keep a nice round number at 11. You couldn't do 11.
If I put a point at a gun at you, you couldn't do 11.
Should I make you do 10 pull ups on our workout? No, I'm gonna make you five.
Why? Because I'm setting you up to work the next day,
the next day we're gonna do five and the next day we're gonna do another five.
And then we're gonna do six. When six is really easy, we're gonna do seven. Why?
If you count, if the, if you did 10 pull ups on Monday,
you're gonna be sore through Thursday. Let's say it's really your max.
So on Thursday, you've only done 10 pull ups from Monday to Thursday,
you've only done 10 me. I've been doing five pull ups every day.
So I'm at 20 pull. Upups already 25 pull ups. Mm. I have more volume than you.
Ah. Now, if you add up at the end of the year, who trained more,
I've trained way more than you. So let's say I go to Jitsu practice.
I'm doing Jitsu every single day, three rounds, five days a week.
That's 15 rounds. You go in twice a week, but you kill your off.
You do five rounds each day. You kill you, push yourself.
Those last two rounds and you burn yourself out. I still did 15. You're at 10.
At the end of the year, I've done countless rounds. More like, I mean,
I've had so much more training than you.
So how much training can we pack in in the week?
That's the real question. How much volume can you expose your athlete to?
So I always tell people to look energy, sorry, exercise can produce energy.
So let's say I'm feeling like a seven outta 10,
10 being I'm really like energized.
One is like really lethargic feeling like I need to lay down and seven I'm
feeling good. Okay.
If I get up and I do a right amount of exercise, the right amount,
I can feel like an 8.5 exercise can give me a tonic effect,
like drinking this coffee. So let's say I just do some jumping jacks.
I hit the back for a couple rounds. I'm feeling good. Once you get that high,
shut it down. Don't go into the phase where your body's beat up tight,
broken up. Don't redline the body.
That's only for training camps for a P for a small period of time. Why?
Cause you get a little bit more from the system, but in the long run,
you get less in the long run. You've taxed the system.
So if you do that regularly, by the time you actually get good,
you'll be broken up. Mm that's why I do a lot of flow training. Have you ever,
have you ever heard of, uh, mihaic send miha's, uh, uh, flow? No. Okay.
So can you, can you, Jamie, can you look up a flow chart?
It'll be so much simpler, like just put in flow, uh,
flow in the workplace or flow chart. This is such, this is pure genius.
This guy is pure genius. Basically he went and he, uh, he coined the term flow.
So like when you're in a state of flow, we've all been in a state of flow.
The number one, um,
way to know that you're in a state of flow is time flies by I'm sure sometimes
you've done podcasts and you're like, whoa, is it three hours already? Yeah,
it was, it was a great podcast. You know,
the one where you have the worst guest or you're,
you're having the worst workout. It feels like every minute is an hour. Yeah.
That's a, that's a bad, you're not in a state of flow.
A state of flow is you're having the right amount of difficulty,
but it's not so difficult that you to stress and it's not so easy that you're
bored. It's the right amount of challenge.
So let's see as simple as playing a like Teris, if I put you on a,
if I put you on a level, that's too high, you're gonna be like,
you're gonna play for five minutes and you' be like, I'm done.
If I put you on a level too easy, you're gonna be like, this is boring.
If I put you at the right amount of level, you see that's just the flow channel.
So if the challenge is too high, you'll meet anxiety.
If it's too low, your boredom. When I go in the practice room,
I'm trying to create flow. I'm having fun training should be addictive.
Imagine training was addictive. Everybody would train. Everybody would be fit,
but people always go into anxiety. They go and they kill their slam their body.
Then I have to convince you to do it again. And three days later,
two days later, and you're like, dude,
the mental energy is gonna take me to get there. Like it shouldn't be,
it should be training should be a pulling force. It should be pulling you.
You wanna go training. If you don't wanna go training, it's not fun.
If it's not fun, you're not gonna do a lot of it. Mm.
And if you're not gonna do a lot of it, you're never gonna reach mastery.
So how do I make it pleasurable? How to make it fun.
I have to be in a flow state and you can get into a flow state in almost
anything. But when you're out of that flow state, cut it.
We're gonna get further.
We're gonna do more training if we cut it today and come back in tomorrow.
Cause I'm a big believer in consistency over intensity.
Intensity should be done. One in a once in a while because by nature,
intensity can only be done once in a while. If you're gonna hard every day,
you're not really going hard every day. You can't go your max every day.
There's a, there's a, there's a cost to going to your max.
Can you sprint every single day? You cannot sprint every single day.
It's ludicrous. You could sprint once or twice a week.
The best sprinters in the world. They sprint once or twice a week.
Nobody sprints every day because intensity by nature entails
that you need to take a break. Cuz if you don't need to take a break,
you didn't really go to your maximum intensity. If you lift your maximum lift,
the maximum amount of reps, you can, the, the maximum weight you can lift.
If you do two reps that wasn't your max. Cuz if it was,
you wouldn't have have a second rep in you, you understand, right.
I would have to give you a break for you to have a second rep.
So we didn't find your true max, right? Intensity, maximum effort entails.
You have to stop because it's the maximum. There was no more reserves.
There are no more reserves. So what do you think about people that,
that say there's no such thing as over training. Here's the,
the John denihar narrative and I don't and I, he, he coins it really,
really well. He says, look, it's under rest. So he says, look,
you couldn't overtrain. If you didn't give your body the rest later. Yeah.
But he says, look, no matter how hard I push in practice,
if I didn't kill myself, I can rest from it.
Then recover and have super compensation. I agree with that.
Some guys have made great strides with just mental fortitude and mental strength
over training the outta themselves.
Okay. But can I ask you this? Yes. They were successful. Yeah.
Yeah. But their bodies break down. Right.
But they could, could they have been better possibly if they used flow. Exactly.
Right.
As good as they were Dan Gable, for example, for example,
like Dan Gable essentially was done in his twenties. Right.
In terms of like his body's broken down. Exactly. Knee replacements,
hip replacements, th that kind of deal.
Let me ask you this. Who wins more often Russians or American wrestlers.
Russians. Every time an American wrestler wins. He's like some prod prodigy.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, he's rare. It's rare. It does happen. But it's rarely,
he's a technical master. Right? However,
you have these Russian guys that medals, you've never heard of them.
And they're like Michael Jordan's of the, the sport. Yeah.
There's just so many of them.
They train long consistent practices. Whereas America, we do Monday, Wednesday,
Friday, hard. We kill it. And then you rest Tuesday, a Thursday,
the Eastern block had a totally different understanding.
They're like it's volume, volume, volume near the fight,
short and intense only near the, the competition phase. But before that,
it's the maximum amount of volume you can imagine. Me and you are, are,
were two athletes,
a and B you're a and B you're training jujitsu three times a week. Really,
really hard. You're going all out. I'm training jujitsu every single day.
My average practice is two hours. Your average practice is two hours.
But when you go in, you kill it. Like you, you go,
you go with all the black belts and you kill it. At the end of the year,
I'm averaging three practices or two practices more than you.
So I've had a hundred practices more than you by the end of the year,
104 practices. Mm let's give two weeks for vacation.
A hundred practices more than you, 200 hours. More than you have been training.
When we roll your, that you put on the mat is gonna be irrelevant. Why?
Cause I've also tasted that intensity periodically.
It's not that much of a factor. Now, when you go super aggressive on me,
when you attack me aggressively, I have felt that I know how to deal with it.
Plus I have an extra a hundred hours on you, 200 hours. So I'm gonna manle you,
you know what I'm saying? The volume is far more important than the intensity.
The intensity by nature is need, is, need to be done periodically.
If you do it every day, it's not intensity. So.
How the Russians, how do they structure their training? They're.
More playful. You know, they kind of like, they kind of warm up,
they kind of flow roll. They kind of like, they do a lot of technique,
high emphasis on technique. Now a lot of people hearing this are gonna be like,
well, the Russians also are funded by their government. You know, they,
their government supports the them a lot more than maybe an American, uh,
wrestler. Mm-hmm <affirmative> okay. I agree with that. There are many factors.
However, we cannot deny that they're technically, uh,
I hate to say the word superior, but they're technically more advanced.
Technically when it comes to wrestling, they have a,
more of a flow understanding. They play around and it, and it, and,
and the practice gets more and more intense,
more and more intense until you see them going really, really hard.
They're going live. You know, they're going really, really rough,
but they were playing. They have a more playful attitude.
You look at the Cubans, you ever see Cubans sparring.
They're like 50 guys in the room. They're just touch sparring.
There's no headgear. There's no Matt on the floor.
They're literally sparring on concrete.
You think they're really trying to drop each other. They're on concrete. I mean,
the Cubans are the top boxers they're consistently win gold medals,
but in practice room, they're playful. Nobody gets hurt.
Like you're seeing the ties. Mm-hmm <affirmative> the ties are just, if,
if you go in there and you, and you kick a tie really hard,
he won't spar with you anymore. He'll be like this guy's too. It's too amateur.
Hmm. There's a time and place for intensity. I'm not antiintensity.
I think there time in place like Angela Dundee was probably arguably the
greatest boxing trainer in history. He says, look,
fighting is for fight night in practice.
It's only practice George champi has that attitude.
And I think that's why he's so good and so healthy today, you know,
because he never hurts to sparring partners.
People line up to wanna spar with him. It's a joy to spar with him.
Yeah. I, I love this. I idea. And I love this approach. I think that, um,
we, we have this attitude that you have to be tough.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> we have this attitude that you have to work hard.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and uh, I mean, I've fallen prey to that many,
many times in my life where you just gotta be tougher.
You gotta work out harder. You gotta push harder. But when I read Pavel stuff,
one of the first things that struck me, it's like, well, yeah, of course.
If you just do five reps every day mm-hmm <affirmative> and then you won't be
sore. You could do it more often. Mm-hmm <affirmative> and then your body,
like you get farmer strength. Exactly.
Like where's farmer strength come from farmer' they're not going to exhaustion.
No, you know, they're not like throwing hail BA bales,
no hay bales to the point where, you know, they literally they're heaving.
They're put their hands and knees like, come on five more. He like.
You should never be sore if you're sore, you overdi it. Whoa.
Cuz I can't train the next day. If I'm sore, I opened the wound.
Every time I work out, then what's that? I said I've overdone it.
Every time I worked out, you may.
Have <laugh> you may have, you gotta.
There's a lot of people listening to this right now. Ball, wait a minute. What,
what.
How the make your workouts at seven outta 10 and do them every day.
You're gonna get far more training hours.
You're gonna spike your you're gonna spike your metabolism far more often.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> your energy levels. Your mood is gonna be far more, uh, uh,
up and, and training is gonna be more addictive.
Now, what kind of training do you do at this stage? Like you're not competing,
but you're constant in there're sparring with guys who are professionals and
you're constantly training them. Like what kind of stuff do you do?
Um, I do jujitsu wrestling,
Moi and a small amount of conditioning after practice. I'll do I I'm too bored.
I find jumping hurdles and, and throwing, like doing weights and stuff.
Me personally. I don't find that as enjoy. I,
I don't have to take that much enjoyment of it.
I can do five to 20 minutes in a practice.
Isn't that? Because barring is just so fun. So much fun. Yeah.
I'm in a flow state. We're having fun. You know we're wrestling. We, yeah. I,
I think conditioning. You can't get away with it. You need it. You need it. And,
and I,
we gotta talk about what George was saying on your podcast that he doesn't do
strengthing conditioning. There's there's a language issue.
There there's a language issue. Okay.
And what we gotta talk about that because we've done tremendous amounts of
strength and conditioning. Me and George, like tremend, like barrels full. Okay.
And uh, but he has a different definition. He there's a misunderstanding. Okay.
So I really want clarify that, but me personally, like, look,
if we roll for an hour for me, it passes like this. Cuz it's so fun.
It's so fun. We're having good time. I'm fascinated. I'm fascinated. Like,
oh you grabbed like, like I'm always learning new things. Right? Um,
to do swing a ketlelell to do pushups, pull ups.
I can only do that for fine amount of time. So I'll put a timer, three rounds,
two minutes and I'm doing it. And I bite the bullet and I do it.
It keeps me healthy, but I don't go and practice to just do that.
That I never do. It's always after my workout, after I digjitsu after. So.
You never have a day where you say today, I'm gonna do Olympic.
Lifting. No, I don't think Muhammad Ali ever did that. Momuhammad Ali never. He,
he boxed.
And then he did his conditioning may whetherther it does his conditioning.
Then he boxes. It would always came together. Why? When I go to the gym,
I'm gonna go have fun. I'm gonna go wrestle. I'm gonna go box.
I'm gonna have a blast. Then I'm gonna grab the ketlebell. I'm gonna do a,
a few presses. I'm gonna do a few Turkish get ups and I'm done. Mm.
Because I need to have some general fitness. You have general fitness.
Then you have specific fitness.
Specific fitness is to get better at my sport general fitness to keep me
healthy,
strong and allow me to reach new levels of athleticism that later in the long
term can translate to my sport later. But if you, you just do your sport,
in my opinion, your system's gonna break down. Your back's gonna break down.
Your knee's gonna break down. Your shoulder's gonna break down.
You need to stimulate certain muscles that are not, uh,
getting stimulation in your specific sport. Hmm.
You create atrophy in certain muscles cuz you're not using them really. Right.
I need to work my stabilizers. I need to swing the Ketle. I need to squat.
I need to do certain, like what are the.
What are the standard cores kettlebells, uh, for.
Is that like triple extension is number one. So any type of squatting maneuver,
I don't particularly use the squat. I like to use triple extension.
Triple extension. So your knee, hip and ankle are bending. Okay.
So like a squat. Mm-hmm <affirmative> your knee, hip and ankle are bending.
I like to jump. I like to throw the medball a lot against the wall.
I like to do hurdles. I like to do box jump.
I like to very low impact TRICS I like sprinting. Sprinting is huge.
You ever do the beep test? What's that? Oh, you got,
you got the space for the beep test here. You gotta implement it. What does it,
it's the best way to do cardio. Really? You ever hear the,
the soccer players use it a lot. It's a beep. Right? You run,
you beep and then it beeps back and the faster the beeps go,
the faster you have to run. Ah, that's really amazing.
Cause what I do is I set a timer for five. I put it on a high pace.
Like I put it at 10 or 11 and it'll just shuttle back and forth and it keeps,
it tells you how fast to run the beat test.
And some days I'll I feel really good. I'll do 11.
Cause I know how fast I have to run to keep up with the beats. And that just,
it's amazing for cardio. It's short, sweet, painless. And it's, it's very,
uh, it translates very well to do you.
Do Tabatas do you ever dobosbas.
Are good? Yeah. I think Tabatas are good if they're done well, they're good.
But again, you have to do it in a way. It doesn't create soreness.
Cuz Tabata can create soreness. You have to be very,
I wouldn't do Tabba ketball swing. That'll that'll cook my, my hamstrings.
I'll probably do like hurdle jump.
Like you take a small hurdle and you just hurdle over it for 20 seconds.
Now what you're saying though,
like there's gotta be a bunch of CrossFit people out there right now that are
screaming into their phones. They're wrong. All due respect.
<laugh> they're wrong. I like, can you say all due respect with all the respect?
They're wrong. Let me tell you why. Okay. And then, and, and look,
if you like CrossFit, do it. Whatever motivates you do it. Okay.
Rosst's problem is it's fatigue seeking. Yes. It says look,
go out there and burn yourself out. Yeah, that's totally wrong.
They're not building any skill. Try to show me a guy.
Who's a champion at CrossFit champion.
Injisu that guy would need two lifetimes to re to reach mastery in both of
those. Why? Because my CrossFit workout is gonna tax me so much.
I cannot learn armbar week triangle choke, double egg take down.
Underhook I'm I've taxed. My whole system. My system is in recovery.
When your system's in recovery, what can you do? But rest you understand?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> okay. Half Menez. Do you think half Menez?
One of the arguabl with the greatest pound for pound,
one of the greatest pound poundjiittsu guys in the world,
do you think he's got a great, uh, uh,
CrossFit workout that he's really mastered? He's really good at.
Do you think he great back squad?
Do you think he's a great deadlifter doesn't look like it. No,
he doesn't believe me. You think, you think, uh, uh, Gordon, Ryan,
he he's a great, uh, Olympic lifter. No, they, they they're.
They're always gonna be at an amateur level in that, in the fitness world. Why?
Because if they were experts, they would have taken so much from theirjijitsu.
Mm. Like look at George. He does gymnastics. Okay.
And I'm the one who I tweet to his arm a little to put 'em in gymnastics. Why?
Uh, because I thought it would, it would give 'em tremendous benefit because,
uh, of, uh, the amount of, first of all, they use a lot of body weight.
So it doesn't cost us anything.
Neurologically body weight exercises are very easy to recover from
body. Weight exercises are very easy on the nervous system.
They use leverage instead of weights.
Plus the stabilizer strength is unbelievable. So,
and of course I want coordination.
I felt George was a little bit stiff mechanical.
And the tumbling makes you more, uh, fluid. I, I think I,
I thought I would create more efficiency this way.
So we get 'em there and there's there's difficulties. Okay.
From a to F we're still at a and B and he'll always be at a and
B. Maybe he'll touch C in his career,
but he'll never get to F you'd have to start really young and you'd have to do
it full time. You know, imagine somebody trying to get good at jujitsu doing it.
Part-time he'll never get good. He'll he'll be so, so he'll reach such a level.
CrossFit is too fatigue seeking for an MMA fighter. Now,
if CrossFiters followed, uh, if they, if they just followed that 70% rule,
they C and periodically went to their max periodically,
as opposed to every single workout go totally out. I bet you their top top guys,
don't go all out every day. I bet you, if you,
if you watch what their top guys do, they taper off the workout.
They make the workout between 70 and 85%, a true max and they work volume.
And then closer to competition, they go higher in intensity.
I guarantee you that's what the best CrossFiters do.
There's no way that the guy who goes balls out every day is gonna add up as much
workout. And as much training time as the guy, who's going 70 to 85% of his max,
there's just no way.
But when they do those classes,
like say they do a CrossFit class and I'm speaking outta ignorance, honestly,
because I only watch them on video. I've never done it a CrossFit class,
but it seems to me they're competing against.
Each other. Yeah. They're going all out. Trying to set a PR. Yeah. Every class.
Yeah. It's ridiculous. All due respect. I mean, it's just it't make any sense,
but why.
Is it so popular?
Because people think that's right. Because why?
Because when you watch a prime time or, or a fight, the guy's at the peak, he's,
he's going at the he's at a point in his, in his,
in his training camp where he's at the high end of intensity.
So people are always watching the last part of your camp. Mm-hmm,
<affirmative> the part where you're peaking and then you're gonna go taper off
for 10, 15 days. They don't see that part.
And they don't see the months before where you ramp up to that level.
They just see the last two,
three weeks where it's the last few sparrings and we're mimicking fight speed to
the maximum as we can. Yeah. We're flirting with danger here.
We're only doing it a little bit, but that's the part everybody's watching.
So they think, oh, if you wanna become really good,
you have to flirt with danger every day you have.
That's what their workouts are. If you see George train throughout the year,
you'd be like, Hey, that wasn't so intense. That wasn't so intense.
There was another really mellow practice. I remember when I was younger,
I was training at the grand brothers gym and I would see oldest grant, you know,
he's a world champion boxer. He, everybody knew him in Canada. Like he's a man.
And he was training really relaxed. I was like, dude,
I'm training harder than him, but he's, that's his millionth workout.
It was my 10th. You know-hmm, <affirmative> he's doing in the long run.
He's added way more years of training.
So that's when I started to understand that the champion,
the best guy he's training for the long run, it's far more intelligent.
He's getting far more workouts in than me. That's burned out.
And the next day I need a rest, right? Yeah. So it's, it's consistency.
Over intensity. Intensity entails.
You need to take a break cause there's no way.
Around it.
So if you're a young person listening to the us and you've got a coach,
that's trying to burn you out every day. What the do you do?
Um.
I don't know the coach, if you go, go into the gym and go, you know what?
I was listening to a hobby the other day and us saying, you're a retard.
<laugh>.
Here's my, here's my, uh, you know, when I roll with the guys,
I think they feel when have them I'm grabbing them gently and they realize it
mm-hmm <affirmative> and I'll let them like, I'll let guys pass my guard. Like,
I'll just go ahead, start second control. And I'll just get,
they'll get the message that we're just kind of playing around. Right.
And then later when we're going more intense, you know, they'll feel,
it they'll feel the intensity, but I don't always roll hard.